---
layout: post
title: My Life in Gaming (1985 to 2019)
date: 2019-04-18 18:15
author: onionsamson
comments: true
categories: [Uncategorized]
---
<p style="white-space:pre-wrap;">That’s a good question! C16 was my first computer, but I barely remember it. C64 was my main machine from 5 to 8 years old. I grew up on hand-me-downs from a better-off cousin, so at Christmas or on my birthday, I’d always get a game, or if I was really lucky a new second-hand machine. Because of this, the original gameboy and Master System have a special place in my heart. </p><p style="white-space:pre-wrap;">Then I got a first-hand Mega Drive II one Christmas and it was Streets of Rage almost every day that I’d played a year or two prior at his house. He had SNES, Mega CD, basically everything!</p><p style="white-space:pre-wrap;">We got a 486 PC when I was 8 that I essentially commandeered, so lots of DOS and then Windows games. </p><p style="white-space:pre-wrap;">I’ve never bought a system at launch, and I scooped up N64 and Dreamcast from the bargain bin.</p><p style="white-space:pre-wrap;">When we got an internet-capable PC for Christmas 1999 I quickly discovered emulators and I was in heaven! I went from being very poor and limited choice to researching which systems and games to play on PC, especially SNES.</p><p style="white-space:pre-wrap;">Although I had a GBA, 2003–2008 weren’t gaming years for me, so I missed out on the DS and whatever was going on then. Then i bought in to PS3 and XBOX360. </p><p style="white-space:pre-wrap;">Nowadays, I still love going back to older consoles as discovering amazing treasures that I missed at the time, because a lot of really good games will always be really good. </p><p style="white-space:pre-wrap;">Ah, you bastard! You’ve inspired me to write a blog post.</p>
