---
layout: post
title: Buying 2015’s flagship GPU used in 2020 the GeForce GTX 980 ti
date: 2020-04-21 09:19
author: onionsamson
comments: true
permalink: 2020/980ti
categories: [DOOM (2016), Gaming, PC, Tech, Writing]
---

My self-built 2013 gaming rig (3770K @ 4.0Ghz, 16Gb DDR3, GeForce 670)
has struggled these past few years. DOOM (2016) especially, has been
painful to play at potato settings.

Having spent the last couple of years hemming and hawing over upgrading, a
close friend got in touch for advice on maxing out (era appropriate) his 2009
Mac Pro (not for gaming). [These *can*
take](https://everymac.com/systems/apple/mac_pro/faq/mac-pro-default-graphics-cards-dvi-dual-link-mini-displayport.html)
a GeForce 680, 780, even a Titan or Titan X with default OS support.

Scoping out eBay for them, I started thinking, well now, maybe I could find
one for me too. The green-eyed monster was just too much for me.  Goaded on, I
narrowly won an MSI GeForce 980 ti Gaming (6gb) and went from playing DOOM
(2016) on potato mode to playing at 2560x1440 with all the advanced video
settings turned up to the max. For £193 ($240) inc.  postage, I can play all
the current modern games at 60fps+ on high/ultra at 1440p.

With VSYNC off I am now able to enjoy 190fps(!) in DOOM (2016), though my
monitor is only 60hz ... for now.

I realise the GeForce 2060 is £300 (\$372) vs the £193 (\$240) I spent on a
five year old card.  ...And that would've been better for future proofing.
...And that next year's cards will probably take a huge leap forward due to
impending consoles.  But...I am happy as Leisure Suit Larry with my new old
980 ti.

It fits well with the rest of my older hardware and should keep on trucking
until I eventually build a whole new machine 2--5 years from now.

The attached video is of me playing a section about 8 hours into DOOM (2016),
still slogging away at Ultra Violence difficulty. I have died many times, and
relished each challenge!

    <iframe
            src="https://player.vimeo.com/video/410108991"
            width="640"
            height="400"
            frameborder="0"
            allow="autoplay; fullscreen"
            allowfullscreen>
    </iframe>
