---
layout: post
title: Field Notes Stationers or Publishers?
date: 2012-08-13
author: onionsamson
permalink: 2012/field-notes
comments: true
categories: [Field Notes, Notebooks, Notepads, Memo Books, Color Series]
---

I like [Field Notes](http://fieldnotesbrand.com/daygame/) writing
materials. This Chicago based company manufacture excellent pocket-size
notepads (memo books). I have subscribed to their [quarterly colors
series](http://fieldnotesbrand.com/colors/) for 2012, which promises
unique, limited-edition variations of their classic 3½ × 5½ memo books.

And I certainly haven't been disappointed in that regard. But [what I
saw](http://onionsamson.files.wordpress.com/2012/08/b49f1-1344889265073.jpg)
when I opened my latest delivery got me unduly excited. What I thought
was a larger notebook bundled with six green, brown, and white memo
books; well, it was not a larger notebook.

It was a book, already filled with words inside. A book for reading; not
for writing. A book to be consumed, not to be used for creation. Imagine
the disappointment and confusion. Why?

Guess what; I didn't ask *Field Notes Brand* to curate for me. I do not
wish them to consider my taste in reading material. I have not given my
permission or requested to be part of a machine marketing and promoting
their new publishing arm.

What I am interested in, and definitely signed up for, is themed
varations of their classic memo books. What I do expect is their
craftsmanship and taste to go into making exquisitely American notepads.

Don't send me books to read. For me, that is a waste of so much good
paper, dispatched to an audience who did not expect and will likely not
appreciate that you have pre-filled their notebooks with words, leaving
no space for theirs. You are more than welcome to send an email about
your new publishing arm, even a slip of paper with my latest package
wouldn't have gone amiss. But a whole book? Why?

Please *Field Notes Brand*, stick to sending your excellent memo books
for me to scribble in, take notes with, and write in.
