---
layout: post
title: Ontological and Corporeal Lassitude
date: 2012-11-26
author: onionsamson
permalink: 2012/ontology
comments: true
categories: [ipad, ipad mini, iPhone, lassitude, link to the past, ontology, teflon, Terry Moore, Writing]
---

Actually, an iPad mini would fit quite well into my life.

Case Study: Bed, lying down. My iPhone 5 is a tad small and tall for
Comixology (currently entombing Terry Moore's *Echo*). Reading in bed
---lying down--- the iPad 2 is a bit unwieldy and the MacBook, while it
is by no means a scorching hot, nor does it sound like a cheap and nasty
leaf blower coughing up a reeking oily lung; it does get heavy. I would
worry about dropping it on myself as I fall asleep, or worse; it sliding
off my corporeal lassitude, over a teflonic cotton sea, and *Baam!* Onto
the floor. *Hurruck*, churns a great few empathic readers' stomachs.

It is hard to subscribe rigidly to only one philosophy when you read
into ontology, epistemology, axiology and consider the different stances
and branches you can grip. Stepping outside your comfort zone and the
seemingly frictionless network of deeply carved, raw and tender pathways
in your mind.

Instead, give these bleeding, searing trails a rest. Let healing take
place from a remove. Enlarging the horizon of possible, allowable
thoughts from new and alien perspectives is uncomfortable. You hate
something because you cannot access it in your mind, and you cannot make
the journey to reconcile this. You have no capacity to even release that
there exists another way. Or do you? Screeching in.

Scar tissue forms when tender roots are spreading beyond a link to the
past. Tender roots are fragile. Nurtured by a thirst for knowledge, an
open-minded curiosity towards appraising many approaches, and the will
to suffer the fresh pain of living in these roots as they die or thrive
in the battle against the concrete that is our own stubborn
preconceptions and limitations; breaking through a new plane to breed
seeds of hope. Pollinating, only then, gnarled trees of hard-won
experiences; together, not alone. Vulnerable still to diseases and
abuses from proximal beings and poisonous feedings.

Now I think about it again. An iPhone is just dandy dander. Compressed
like carbon in the fabrication of artificial diamonds. No, that's not
right. Dander with a latent film of smug yuppie pore excreta, smearing
and swirling invisible, till the lights go down.

But in fact, I wrote and edited (thirty/seventy split) all this while
lying in bed, tapping my thumbs onto a foil of glass, the busiest
section four postage stamps wide, two tall, and promising to realise all
dreams, with so much potential, until next year's new model steals
eyeballs and bile again.
